# Discord Chatbot with OpenAI

The chatbot can respond to messages starting with ```!ai```, ```!bot```, or ```!gpt``` with chatbot responses generated by OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model. The bot also has the ability to generate images using OpenAI's DALL-E model in response to messages starting with ```!image```. The conversation history is saved and can be continued across multiple messages.


## Getting Started
### Optiona I
1. Clone this repository and navigate to the project directory.
2. Install the dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. Create a .env file in the root directory and add your Discord bot token and OpenAi Api Key:
    ```
    DISCORD_TOKEN=your_token_here
    CHATGPT_API_KEY=your_api_key
    ```

4. Start the bot by running ```python run.py``` in the terminal.

### Option II 
1. Clone this repository and navigate to the project directory.
2. Create a .env file in the root directory and add your Discord bot token and OpenAi Api Key:
    ```
    DISCORD_TOKEN=your_token_here
    CHATGPT_API_KEY=your_api_key
    ```
3. Install docker and run in the terminal: 
   ```
   docker compose-up
   ```

## Usage

Once the bot is running, you can start messaging it on Discord. The bot will respond to messages starting with ```!ai```, ```!bot```, or ```!gpt``` with chatbot responses generated by OpenAI's GPT-3.5 model. The conversation history is saved and can be continued across multiple messages. You can start a new conversation with the bot by sending the message ```!session```.

The bot can also generate images using OpenAI's DALL-E model in response to messages starting with ```!image```. Simply send a message starting with '!image' followed by a description of the image you want to generate or ```!lucky``` to generate a random image prompted by GPT-3.5.
